---
layout: post
title: "Question about const"
date: 2015-12-20 01:23:45 -0800
tags: rust const static mutability
---
Constants in rust

I originally asked this question on [rust reddit] but thought it would
be nice here.

I was talking to a coworker about rust and they commented on mutability.
They asked "in languages like scala or even typscript there is a const
symbol const x = y x = z is illegal but y.property = 'foo' is not. what
about in rust? ". I did not know off hand so I went to play rust
website.

I figure let me try something easy. I checked [rust by example] for the
const syntax.

{% highlight rust %}
fn main() {
  const N: [i32; 5] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
  N[0]=2;
  println!("{:?}", N);
}
{% endhighlight %}

Surely rust would never let me compile this. I can not change a
'constant'. Nope it run runs.
{% highlight rust %}
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
{% endhighlight %}

It outputs the original value of N. Nice to see the value was not
change, however, it does not match what my code would want. Reading more
of the docs I see there is static. Lets try that.

{% highlight rust %}
fn main() {
  const N: [i32; 5] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
  N[0]=2;
  println!("{:?}", N);
}
/*
<anon>:6:1: 6:8 error: cannot assign to immutable indexed content
<anon>:6 N[0]=2;
         ^~~~~~~
error: aborting due to previous error
*/
{% endhighlight %}

Thats more of the response someone might expect. What is going on?
Reading the [rust book] section on const and static it states:

>Constants live for the entire lifetime of a program. More specifically,
>constants in Rust have no fixed address in memory. This is because
>they’re effectively inlined to each place that they’re used. References
>to the same constant are not necessarily guaranteed to refer to the
>same memory address for this reason.

Hopefully this is something that never bites you and if it does it only
happens once.

[rust reddit]: https://www.reddit.com/r/rust/comments/3xdi5t/mutability_question/
[rust by example]: http://rustbyexample.com/custom_types/constants.html
[rust book]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/const-and-static.html

This code was ran with rustc 1.5.0 (3d7cd77e4 2015-12-04).
